Garvey v. State Farm Fire Casualty Co. , P. 2d Cal: Supreme Court cited Cal. 3d P. 2d Cal. Rptr. JACK I. GARVEY et al. , Plaintiffs and, v. STATE FARM FIRE AND CASUALTY COMPANY, Defendant and Appellant. Docket No. S. F. . Supreme Court of California. March,. COUNSEL, Joseph,, Joseph W. , Jr. , Susan M. and Leo F. for Defendant and Appellant. , Levy, J. , Stuart B. , Michael R. Tyler,, Lamb,, John R. , Donald J. and Ellen August as Curiae on behalf of Defendant and Appellant. Bianco, Brandi, Jones Rudy, Bianco, Brandi, Jones, Shane Rudy,, Sparks Rudy, David W. Rudy, Thomas E. , Joel P. and Terry for Plaintiffs and. , Berger, Michael M. Berger, Harry V. , Hal Chase, Jr. , Roland, James P. ,, Charles, Leonard, Robert, Douglas, James R. , Harvey R. , Sanford Gage, Don and Ian as Curiae on behalf of Plaintiffs and. OPINION, C. J. We review to consider the Court of Appeal's reversal of a directed verdict of coverage in favor of Jack and Rita Garvey hereafter plaintiffs. We sought to resolve some of the confusion that arisen regarding insurance coverage under the all risk section of a homeowner's insurance policy when loss to an insured's property can be to two, one of which is a peril, and the other an peril. In recent, some courts have misinterpret ed and our in Sabella v. Cal. 2d Cal. Rptr. , P. 2d, and State Farm. Auto. . Co. v. Partridge Cal. 3d Cal. Rptr. , P. 2d. In so doing, they have coverage in first party property damage cases under our holding in Partridge by inappropriately the Partridge concurrent causation approach as an alternative to Sabella's efficient proximate cause analysis. See. . , This extension of the analysis in Partridge, a third party liability case, coverage under a first party property insurance policy whenever a covered peril is a concurrent proximate cause of the loss, without regard to the application of specific policy exclusion. Such reasoning the criteria set forth in Insurance Code and, the relevant analysis in Sabella and the important distinction between property loss coverage under a first party property policy and tort liability coverage under a third party liability insurance policy. Indeed, because a covered peril usually can be to exist somewhere in the chain of causation in cases multiple, the Partridge approach to coverage in first party cases effectively policy in all risk homeowner's property loss, thereby essentially the limiting of insurance in such cases. We cannot believe Partridge intended such a sweeping result in first party property loss cases. To the contrary, as we explain below, we must put Partridge in its proper perspective, i. e. , that decision should be only in liability cases in which true concurrent, each from an independent act of negligence, simultaneously join together to produce injury. Therefore, as will appear, we conclude this case should be remanded to the Court of Appeal with to remand to the trial court for a jury determination of causation pursuant to Sabella, supra, Cal. 2d. I. Plaintiffs bought their house in the. In, plaintiffs from State Farm Fire and Casualty Company hereafter defendant an all risk homeowner's policy of insurance which was in effect at all times relevant. Section I of the policy in question provided coverage for all of physical loss to the property covered except as otherwise or limited. by this portion of the policy included those by, resulting from, to or by any earth movement, including but not limited to earthquake, volcanic eruption, landslide, mudflow, earth sinking, rising or shifting, and by. . . settling, cracking, shrinkage, or expansion of,,,,, or. . . . In August, plaintiffs that a house addition, built in the early, had begun to pull away from the main structure. They also discovered damage to a deck and garden wall. There numerous phone,, and invest ion s as plaintiffs tried to determine from defendant whether the damage was covered by their homeowner's property insurance policy. In October, after from its counsel an opinion that the loss was not covered, defendant notified plaintiffs by letter that the policy coverage for the loss herein. Normally, such a denial of coverage would leave you to your. However, because the company to resolve the coverage issue in an atmosphere free from extraneous matters such as bad-faith and class action, the company is prepared to advance you the sum of, subject to a reservation of rights as authorized by v. , Cal. 3d. . . . Under the agreement, defendant would make the advance and file a declaratory relief action on the issue of coverage; plaintiffs would pay back the advance if the court in defendant's favor, would waive any claim of consequential or punitive damages out of any allegation of bad-faith, mental distress, oppression, fraud or insurance-related tort, and would not institute any class-action against defendant on account of the and involved in this loss and claim. After refusing to sign the foregoing agreement, plaintiffs, that although their policy coverage for or by earth movement, it implicitly provided coverage for by contractor negligence because negligence was not a specifically peril under the policy. Plaintiffs also that defendant their claim before adequately investigating the damage to the structure, and that subsequent invest ion s were merely to confirm the original denial. In addition, plaintiffs, defendant's denial of coverage a breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing and various of the Insurance Code. Plaintiffs sought as relief i policy, general damages for economic detriment and emotional distress, and punitive damages. Defendant on the day of trial, and the court a directed verdict for plaintiffs on the coverage issue. The court informed the parties it was following the in Partridge, supra, Cal. 3d, and Sabella, supra, Cal. 2d, and that plaintiffs were covered under the policy because negligent construction, a covered risk, was a concurrent proximate cause of the damage. Specifically, the trial court stated: The Supreme Court told me in Sabella that negligent construction can be a proximate cause. They told me in Partridge there may be coverage whenever an insured risk simply a concurrent proximate cause of the. Now, to me that is crystal clear, those two together, that if negligent construction is a concurrent proximate cause of the loss, there is coverage. The court continued, The key witness for the defense, Mr. Nelson, conceded in his testimony, as I it and understood it, that the negligent construction was a cause of the room falling away. He did not use the word proximate. He said a causative factor at one time. I don't recall the exact language when he a question. In substance, that it was a cause on another occasion. As a matter of law, based upon the evidence, it was a proximate cause. The jury subsequently found defendant liable for, in policy and general damages, and million in punitive damages. The court defendant's for judgment notwithstanding the verdict and for a new trial, and declined to issue a remittitur with respect to the punitive damages award. The court judgment in accordance with the verdict. Defendant, and the Court of Appeal reversed the judgment in a divided opinion. Before the Court of Appeal holding, and in order to provide sufficient background information that will aid in the understanding of this case, we first discuss the development of multiple and concurrent causation insurance analyses, and the important distinction between property and liability. . DISCUSSION A. Development of Multiple Causation Insurance Coverage Analyses. The efficient proximate cause standard Our courts have long to enunciate that determine whether coverage when and covered interact to cause a loss. Initially, the courts to reconcile section which for coverage when a peril insured against was the proximate cause of loss with section which, that If a peril is specifically in a contract of insurance, and there is a loss which would not have but for such peril, such loss is thereby from coverage even though the immediate cause of the loss was a peril which was not. In our Sabella decision, supra, Cal. 2d, we faced a difficult property loss coverage question after a building contractor a house on uncompacted fill and negligently a sewer line; negligent installation was a covered peril. Eventually, the sewer line ruptured causing water to saturate the ground surrounding the house, resulting in subsidence, an peril. The brought a first party action against their insurer, seeking recovery for property loss under their homeowner's property policy. Id. , at p. . The trial court found the loss was not covered because subsidence was a specifically peril under the policy. The this ruling and we reversed. On its face, section would have coverage because the loss would not have but for the peril of subsidence. We, however, that such a result would be absurd because it would deny coverage even though an insured peril proximately the loss simply because a subsequent, peril was also part of the chain of causation. We reasoned that and were not intended to deny coverage for whenever an peril to any extent in the chain of causation so that the resulting harm would not have but for the peril's operation. . . . Sabella, supra, Cal. 2d at p. . Rather, we that when section is read along with section, the but for clause of section necessarily to a proximate cause of the loss, and the immediate cause to the cause most immediate in time to the damage. Id. , at. . Thus, Sabella that: I n whether a loss is within an exception in a policy, where there is a concurrence of different, the efficient cause the one that others in motion is the cause to which the loss is to be, though the other may follow it, and operate more immediately in the disaster. Cal. 2d at. , from Couch on Insurance; Houser Kent, Concurrent Causation in First-Party Insurance Claims: Cannot Afford Concurrent Causation Tort. L. J. ,. Furthermore, in character ing the but for clause of section as to the efficient proximate cause of the loss, we impliedly that coverage would not exist if the covered risk was simply a remote cause of the loss, or if an risk was the efficient proximate meaning predominant cause of the loss. On the other hand, the fact that an risk to the loss would not preclude coverage if such a risk was a remote cause of the loss. We heavily in Sabella, supra, Cal. 2d, on our decision in v. Metropolitan Life. Co. Cal. 2d P. 2d, in which recovery was on a homeowner's policy against death by accidental means. In, the insured, who was suffering from incurable cancer, an peril, in a fire. We, recovery may be had even though a diseased or infirm condition to actually contribute to cause the death if the accident in progress the chain of leading directly to death, or if it is the prime or moving cause. Id. , at. . thus defined efficient proximate cause in the first party loss context as the prime or moving cause. Ibid. The Court of Appeal here the Sabella term efficient proximate cause with the term moving cause. Sabella defined efficient proximate cause alternatively as the one that others in motion Cal. 2d at p. , and as the mina t ing or moving efficient cause. Id. , at p. . We use the term efficient proximate cause meaning mina t ing cause when to the Sabella analysis because we believe the phrase moving cause can be misconstrue d to deny coverage erroneously, particularly when it is understood literally to mean the cause. Indeed, we believe misinterpretation of the Sabella definition of efficient proximate cause added to the confusion in the courts and, in part, is responsible for the erroneous application of Partridge, supra, Cal. 3d, to first party property loss cases. By on, supra, Cal. 2d and and, Sabella, supra, Cal. 2d, forth a workable rule of coverage that a fair result within the reasonable expectation s of both the insured and the insurer whenever there a causal or dependent relationship between covered and. In multiple cause cases, a proximate cause analysis, on the efficient proximate cause, could be employed to determine whether or not the insured was covered for the loss under the property portion of the homeowner's insurance policy. Indeed, for following Sabella, the Court of Appeal applied the efficient proximate cause analysis in multiple-cause property-coverage under all-risk homeowner's property. See, e. g. , v. Sun. Office, Ltd. Cal. App. 2d, Cal. Rptr. , A. L. R. 3d coverage under policy loss by windstorm but excluding loss from water damage; wind, causing gangway to fall on and sink a dock, was efficient proximate cause of loss; v. General. Co. Cal. App. 2d, Cal. Rptr. coverage when water from plumbing system covered peril was the efficient proximate cause of subsidence damage peril. . The doctrine of concurrent causation In, we were faced with a third party tort liability situation that a novel question of insurance coverage and did not fit the Sabella analysis because no single peril could be the predominant cause of the loss. In Partridge, supra, Cal. 3d, the insured was covered under both an automobile liability policy and a homeowner's liability policy with comprehensive personal liability coverage. The latter liability policy out of the use of a motor vehicle. The insured, after filing the trigger mechanism of his pistol to create a hair-trigger action such negligence was a covered risk under the homeowner's property policy, at night from his vehicle. As he drove over rough terrain while waving the gun in his hand negligent driving was an risk under homeowner's liability policy, the gun fired and injured a passenger. First party property coverage were not involved. The case concerned the personal liability of the insured who was by his injured passenger. Both were by the same insurer, which conceded the accident was covered under the automobile liability policy. The parties, however, whether coverage was also under the homeowner's liability policy, which coverage for out of the use of motor. As in Sabella, supra, Cal. 2d, we on, supra, Cal. 2d, at, to find coverage under the homeowner's policy. In the liability coverage, we explicitly, the efficient cause language of Sabella is not very helpful, for here both were independent of each other: the filing of the trigger did not cause the careless driving, nor vice. Both, however, the injury. . . . If by separate, both would be joint fully liable for the resulting. Moreover, the fact that both acts were by a single person does not alter their nature as concurrent proximate. Cf. , v. State of California Cal. App. 2d, Cal. Rptr. . Partridge, supra, Cal. 3d at p. ,. . We by, Although there may be some question whether either of the two in the instant case can be properly characterize d as the prime, moving or efficient cause of the accident we believe that coverage under a liability insurance policy is equally available to an insured whenever an insured risk simply a concurrent proximate cause of the. Id. , at. ,. , second italics added. Because Partridge dealt with causation in the context of third party liability insurance, we did not address, nor did we contemplate, the application of our decision to the determination of coverage in the first party property insurance context. Indeed, Partridge only that the concurrent cause standard was consistent with Insurance Code and, as authoritatively in Sabella v. . . . . Partridge, supra, Cal. 3d at p. ,. . Furthermore, Partridge never considered in what manner concurrent causation could apply in the first party property insurance context. Rather, by in Partridge the novel question of liability coverage because two separate acts of negligence simultaneously together to cause an injury, we also impliedly the limited scope of our holding. We did not extend our holding to first party property insurance cases. Accordingly, we should not apply the decision to such cases merely because it to simplify the coverage analysis. B. The Distinction Between Liability and Property Insurance As we will demonstrate, the decision of the Court of Appeal, in the Partridge concurrent causation analysis to property damage cases, like other recent insurance cases all-risk homeowner's, to differentiate between property loss coverage under a first party policy and tort liability coverage under a third party policy of insurance. First and third party coverage is today typically provided in a single policy, and under both of coverage, once the insured that an event within the scope of basic coverage under the policy, the burden is on the insurer to prove a claim is specifically. See v. . Cal. 3d, Cal. Rptr. , P. 2d; Royal Globe. Co. v. Cal. App. 3d, Cal. Rptr. ; v. United Services Auto. . Cal. App. 3d, Cal. Rptr. . Moreover, exclusionary are narrowly, whereas coverage are broadly. See Reserve. Co. v. Cal. 3d, Cal. Rptr. , P. 2d. The scope of coverage and the operation of the exclusion, however, are different in the separate policy and should be as such. As one commentator recently stated: Liability and corresponding coverage under a third party insurance policy must be carefully distinguished from the coverage analysis applied in a first party property contract. Property insurance, unlike liability insurance, is unconcerned with establish ing negligence or otherwise tort liability. , Concurrent Causation and the Art of Policy Drafting: New for Property Forum,. For these it is important to separate the causation analysis necessary in a first party property loss case from that which must be in a third party tort liability case. The following quotation the distinction that must be drawn: Property insurance. . . is an agreement, a contract, in which the insurer to indemnify the insured in the event that the insured property a covered loss. Coverage, in turn, is commonly provided by reference to causation, e. g. , loss by. . . certain. The term in traditional property insurance parlance to fortuitous, active, physical such as lightning, wind, and explosion, which bring about the loss. Thus, the cause of loss in the context of a property insurance contract is totally different from that in a liability policy. This distinction is critical to the resolution of multiple. Frequently property occur which involve more than one peril that might be considered legally significant. If one of the within the coverage grant commonly either because it is specifically insured as in a peril policy or not specifically or as in an all policy over coverage can arise. The task becomes one of the most important cause of the loss and the loss to that cause. , supra, Forum at. , italics added. On the other hand, the right to coverage in the third party liability insurance context on traditional tort of fault, proximate cause and duty. This liability analysis substantially from the coverage analysis in the property insurance context, which on the relationship between that are either covered or in the contract. In liability insurance, by for personal liability, and agreeing to cover the insured for his own negligence, the insurer to cover the insured for a spectrum of. In order to further demonstrate the between property loss and liability coverage, we compare two of a typical homeowner's policy the all-risk property loss coverage section of the policy in this case and the personal liability section at issue in Partridge. Each policy section is by separate. For example, the all-risk first party property loss coverage section in this case for coverage against all risk of physical loss except: by. . . settling cracking, shrinkage, or expansion of,,,,, or. . . . In comparison, in Partridge, The coverage clause of the Personal Liability section of the Homeowner's Policy in relevant part: This Company to pay on behalf of the Insured all which the Insured shall become legally to pay as damages because of bodily injury or property damage, to which this insurance, by an occurrence. . . . Cal. 3d at p. ,. . Moreover, t he applicable exclusionary clause: This policy does not apply:. Under Coverage E Personal Liability. . . a To Bodily Injury or Property Damage Out of the Ownership, Maintenance, Operation, Use, Loading or of:. . . Any Motor Vehicle or By, or Rented or to, any Insured. . . . Cal. 3d at p. ,. . As the two cited above illustrate, under the all-risk first party property policy, because generally all risk of physical loss is covered, the become the limitation on loss coverage. Under the liability portion of the policy, on the other hand, the focus is, at least initially, on the insured's legal obligation to pay for injury or damage out of an occurrence. In the property insurance context, the insurer and the insured can tailor the policy according to the selection of insured and and, in the process, determine the corresponding premium to meet the economic needs of the insured. On the other hand, if the insurer is to cover claims that are outside the scope of the first party property loss policy, an all risk policy would become an all loss policy. , Concurrent Causation: The Coverage Trap Best's Rev. : Prop. Casualty,. In most, the insured can point to some covered con tri but ing factor. As we shall discuss, if the rule in Partridge, supra, Cal. 3d, were extended to first party cases, the presence of such a cause, no matter how minor, would give rise to coverage. Finally, as we explain, the reasonable expectation s of the insurer and the insured in the first party property loss portion of a homeowner's policy as manifested in the distribution of, the proportionate and the coverage for all except those specifically cannot reasonably include an expectation of coverage in property loss cases in which the efficient proximate cause of the loss is an activity expressly under the policy. Indeed, if we were to approve of the trial court's directed verdict, we would be ordinary to bear the expense of necessitate d by the erroneous expansion of their potential. See Fire. Co. v. Superior Court Cal. App. 3d, Cal. Rptr. , A. L. R. 4th. C. The Court of Appeal Holding In reversing the directed verdict, the Court of Appeal defendant's argument that although third party negligence is not specifically in an all-risk policy, it is not a covered peril because it is technically not considered a risk of physical loss within the policy. We agree and find defendant's claim is not by authority. See, e. g. , Sabella, supra, Cal. 2d,. Next, the court that recent first party property loss cases below have forsaken the efficient proximate cause analysis in Sabella, supra, Cal. 2d, and have instead to the holding in Partridge, supra, Cal. 3d, to allow coverage for property damage simply because a risk is an independent proximate cause of the loss. Although the Court of Appeal to confine the application of Partridge to liability cases, the court did attempt to limit the scope of Partridge's concurrent causation standard in both liability and property cases by the included and to be independent of origin and independent in operation. Specifically, the Court of Appeal Partridge, supra, Cal. 3d, as holding that because each act could have the loss regardless of the existence of the other act citation, they were independent of each other. According to the Court of Appeal: Neither cause in Partridge can be said to have necessarily upon a condition by the other, or to have the other, or to have brought to fruition the potential for damage inherent in the other. The Court of Appeal the Partridge court would not have found the covered risk to be independent if that risk negligence only in relation to, or was dependent on an risk. Thus, the Court of Appeal determined that in order for coverage to be found under Partridge, the concurrent event alone must have been a sufficient condition of the loss i. e. , capable of damage itself. In its effort to interpret and apply the Partridge decision in the present case, however, the court the lead of other Court of Appeal and assumed, without discussion, that Partridge should apply to first party property insurance. In so doing, the court on both Partridge, and Sabella, supra, Cal. 2d, and the following two-tiered rule for coverage: W the covered risk and risk are in fact should be a court's threshold inquiry in cases such as this. If i they both are in fact and if the two are independent of each other, Partridge analysis is triggered: the insured is covered if the covered risk was a concurring proximate cause of the loss. If the two are dependent on each other, Sabella analysis is triggered: the insured is covered only if the covered risk was the moving cause of the loss. The Court of Appeal determined that the jury in the present case must decide the coverage issue because it was not clear, as a matter of law, whether the two were dependent on or independent of each other. The Court of Appeal's formulation was an attempt to provide trial courts with an analytical framework from which to determine property insurance coverage when a loss is by concurrent. The court was on the right track in to reconcile first and third party cases that use the Partridge analysis in coverage. We believe, however, as set forth above, that the court erroneously to limit at the threshold the application of Partridge to the third party liability context. D. The Misapplication of Partridge in the First Party Property Insurance Context In. Co. of America v. , supra, F. 2d,, the insurer sought declaratory relief against several after flooding their. The trial court the policyholder s claim that the water district's negligence in failing to provide adequate flood control a covered risk the damage, and under Sabella there was no coverage because the peril flooding was the efficient proximate cause of the property damage. The Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals reversed on the basis that the should be to seek coverage under Partridge, supra, Cal. 3d. The court determined that in order for Partridge to apply, the covered peril must have independently of the peril. The court reasoned, however, that the requirement was met because two independently conditions to cause the flood damage. Indeed, specifically stated that the twin in Partridge were independent only in the sense that each cause had an independent origin, not that they did not interact with one another to cause the loss. F. 2d at p. . As curiae for defendant point out, however,, supra, F. 2d, was actually a classic case of dependent causation use of a Sabella analysis. Because the damage by the defective flood control system was necessarily dependent on flooding, the Ninth Circuit Partridge to find coverage. It should have to Sabella for resolution to determine whether the defectively flood control system was the efficient proximate cause of the property even though the flood was the immediate cause of the, or whether the trial court correctly coverage in that flooding was the efficient proximate cause of the loss. The Ninth Circuit specifically the effect of the express policy exclusion in the policy that loss by, resulting from, to or by any of the following: a. Flood, surface water. . . . , supra, F. 2d at. . In Premier. Co. v. , supra, Cal. App. 3d,, a third party's negligence a covered peril a subdrain. After a heavy rain, the house slid from its foundation. Water damage was an peril. The trial court on Sabella, supra, Cal. 2d, and determined that coverage should be because the efficient proximate cause of the loss was the rainfall. The same Court of Appeal division that decided the present case reversed and coverage, concluding under a Sabella analysis that the efficient proximate cause of the loss was the subdrain. Notwithstanding this conclusion, the court continued by that the insured would be covered in any event under Partridge, supra, Cal. 3d, because as a matter of law. . . the damage to the drain was a concurrent proximate cause of the loss. Premier, supra, Cal. App. 3d at p. . In its opinion in the present case, the Court of Appeal correctly acknowledged that its interpretation in Premier of Partridge's independence requirement was wrong. the of Premier the court stated that the property loss by the negligently subdrain was dependent on the existence of rainfall, but that nonetheless, the slide would not have if the drain had not been severely. Thus, the Court of Appeal, Premier was simply a Sabella situation. As the court admitted, it had a satisfactory result under Sabella, supra, Cal. 2d; the Partridge analysis was simply unnecessary in Premier. E. The Trial Court in the Verdict Finally, because we believe the Partridge analysis should be limited to third party liability cases, we cannot sustain the directed verdict in this case. Plaintiffs argue the directed verdict was proper because there was no evidence of sufficient substantiality to support a determination other than the following: the included risk of negligent construction and the risk of earth movement in the form of soil creep, if any, were independent, concurrent proximate of the loss plaintiffs sustained to their property. We disagree. The record does not support either plaintiffs contention or the hyperbolic characterization of the expert testimony in Justice dissent. The record that the were in marked disagreement as to the of plaintiffs damages. For example, Mr. Nelson, the defense expert,: There was settlement and creep. The room addition away from the house and was by probably by settlement and creep. Plaintiffs expert, Mr. to the contrary. To the question, Was what to the room addition in August related to any respect to soil creep, in your opinion? , In my opinion, it didn't. And the reason is because the actual breaking the footing of the support beam was actually on a level surface. It was on a level fill surface that had been behind the rock wall, and the whole hillside may have been creeping, but this was just one part of it, and it was a level surface. At another point during the trial, however, that the damage to the deck was by the following: In this case, the footing of the retaining wall was not deep enough, so consequently, when the creep at the surface this downhill movement, the footing just went along for the ride. This case a classic Sabella situation. Coverage should be determined by a jury under an efficient proximate cause analysis. Accordingly, bearing in mind the here, we conclude the question of causation is for the jury to decide. If the earth movement was the efficient proximate cause of the loss, then coverage would be under Sabella, supra, Cal. 2d. On the other hand, if negligence was the efficient proximate cause of the loss, then coverage under Sabella. These were jury because sufficient evidence was to support both poss. The judgment of the Court of Appeal is affirmed with to remand the cause to the trial court for further proceedings consistent with the opinion of this court. , J. ,, J. , and, J. ,. , J. I concur with the majority's conclusion that the trial court in a directed verdict in favor of plaintiffs on the coverage issue and that the cause must be remanded to the trial court for further proceedings. However, I cannot subscribe fully to the analysis and reasoning of the majority opinion and am concerned that they are erroneous in part and will lead to yet further confusion in this seemingly perplexing area of the law. I therefore separately concur. The majority that the confusion in the from the failure to distinguish between first party and third party cases. The majority to hold that the efficient proximate cause or predominant cause analysis of Sabella v. Cal. 2d Cal. Rptr. , P. 2d hereafter Sabella is applicable in all first party cases and that the concurrent-cause analysis of State Farm. Auto. . Co. v. Partridge Cal. 3d Cal. Rptr. , P. 2d hereafter Partridge is not applicable in first party cases except perhaps, as I understand it, where the concurrent are truly independent of each other and neither one can fairly said to be the efficient or predominant cause of the loss. Although, the majority opinion does not expressly say so, it leaves the impression that the concurrent-causation rule of Partridge is applicable to third party cases. While I recognize important between property damage insurance and liability insurance and first party and third party cases, I am doubtful that those compel or warrant two separate and entirely different for ascertain ing the coverage provided by the two of. In my view, the confusion in this area of the law primarily from two major in the Partridge decision which have made it all but impossible to reconcile with Sabella and which ought to be and. The first flaw in Partridge is, as the majority, that it into the determination of coverage, and of tort law inapplicable to the contractual question of the coverage by an insurance policy, and, based on them, adopted the tort rule of concurrent causation to determine coverage. One of the principal rational ons for the rule in Partridge was that if two different had separately the two negligent acts involved therein, filing down the gun's trigger to a hair trigger and driving the vehicle off the road over rough terrain with the gun pointed at the passenger, each actor as a joint would have been liable. Therefore, if the trigger filer had a homeowner's policy including personal liability coverage and the vehicle driver had auto liability insurance, both would have been obliged to indemnify their respective in respect to a judgment against them. That rationalization accurately reflected tort law, but it entirely to recognize that the problem before the court in Partridge was not the joint and several liability of joint, but the interpretation of a homeowner's policy by the single, which expressly any injury out of the use of a motor vehicle. One might ask what the situation would have been if there were in fact two but the vehicle driver had only a homeowner's policy and the trigger filer had only an automobile liability insurance policy. Both would still have been liable under tort law, but neither policy would have coverage for the conduct of the insured and neither insurer would have had any liability. The point is that tort liability on the part of the insured does not establish liability on the part of the insurer unless the policy coverage for the conduct of the insured and that is to be determined by contract, not tort, in both first party and third party cases. There are to be sure substantial between property damage insurance and liability insurance and first party and third party cases. To start with, coverage in property damage insurance is typically in of injury by certain or set forth in the policy, whereas coverage in liability insurance is typically couched in of the insured's liability for loss resulting from an occurrence as defined in the policy. Because of this difference it may be that the reasonable expectation s of will be different under property damage and liability insurance. Further, there is a public policy consideration involved in coverage deter mina s under liability that may not be involved in coverage deter mina s under property damage: third party injury and the potential burden on the public fisc in the absence of compensation. These and perhaps others may legitimately affect the determination of coverage. But the question of coverage in both first party and third party cases is a contract question and must be determined under contract. ,, Jones v. ich es A. G. Cal. 3d, Cal. Rptr. , P. 2d and cases there cited; Atlas Assurance Co. Ltd. v. Corp. Cal. App. 3d, Cal. Rptr. ; see also Dairy Delivery Co. , Inc. v. Sentry. Co. Cal. 3d, Cal. Rptr. , P. 2d; Gray v. . Co. Cal. 2d, Cal. Rptr. , P. 2d. The other major flaw in the Partridge decision is that it mischaracterize d the of the injury in that case as independent and therefore the rule it was to announce. If there could be a case in which the concurrent causation rule might be appropriate it would be where the of the injury were truly independent of each other and related to the injury in such a way that neither could fairly be said to be the efficient or predominant cause. See. . p. , ante,. . But that was not the case in Partridge. There the filing of the trigger had set the stage all right; it was in fact an accident waiting to happen. But the hair trigger was by the other cause, the bumping and bouncing of the vehicle as it was driven off the pavement over the rough and bumpy ground in pursuit of with the gun pointed at the passenger. Thus, under Sabella it was the negligent driving of the vehicle over the rough terrain with the gun pointed at the passenger that was the efficient or predominant cause of the injury and coverage for such accidental injury out of the use of a vehicle was expressly by the homeowner's policy. Where the court in Partridge went wrong is readily apparent. It to the absence of interrelationship between the two acts of negligence and they were independent Partridge, supra, Cal. 3d at p. ,. . . . T here both were independent of each other: the filing of the trigger did not cause the careless driving, nor vice. . It is not enough, however, that the negligent acts are independent. That is frequently the case. The minimum requirement that could make the Partridge concurrent cause rule appropriate would be that the concurrent of the injury were wholly independent of each other and related to the injury in such a way that neither could fairly be said to be the efficient or predominant cause of the injury. See e. g. ,. . p. ,. . This analytic fault in Partridge led a number of courts to misconstrue Partridge's independence requirement and thus erroneously to apply the Partridge rule. See e. g. , Farmer's. Exchange v. Cal. App. 3d, Cal. Rptr. ; Premier. Co. v. Cal. App. 3d, Cal. Rptr. ;. Co. of America v. 9th Cir. F. 2d,. Thus, while I would not say there is no case in which an independent concurrent causation rule similar to that set forth in Partridge might be useful or helpful, I find Partridge fundamentally flawed in the several and would overrule it to the extent it is inconsistent with the here expressed. , J. ,. , J. I dissent. The question to be resolved in this case is the liability non of an insurer when multiple including insured against and from coverage concur to cause a loss. In Sabella v. Cal. 2d Cal. Rptr. , P. 2d, and State Farm. Auto. . Co. v. Partridge Cal. 3d Cal. Rptr. , P. 2d, the court set forth the governing rule. In the that have, however, the federal courts and the state Courts of Appeal have inconsistently and applied Sabella and Partridge. Because of the importance and evident difficulty of the question, the court decided to address the matter anew. As I shall explain, I am of the opinion that the rule is as: When two, one included within the coverage of the policy and the other, concur as proximate in a loss and are dependent i. e. , when one the other in motion there is coverage if the included risk the, but not if the the included. When, however, the included and concur as proximate in a loss and are independent i. e. , when one does not set the other in motion coverage in all cases. The majority, I must acknowledge, have in reaching a clear result: in this court, the insurer and the lose. But they have to offer a sound rationale in support. They claim that Sabella a single rule of efficient proximate cause or mina t ing cause; that Partridge is, and should be, limited to third party insurance; and that in any event Partridge is inapplicable on the of this case. But as will appear, none of these claims is well. I In plaintiffs Jack and Rita Garvey a house in. It that the house was built prior to; it sat on a hill, with a downslope to the rear; a rock wall of unknown age was on the downslope; at some time before, a deck was below the southeast corner of the house; in, a room addition was built onto the lower southwest portion of the house on level ground. At all times relevant herein Mr. Garvey was a lawyer and a professor of law. In plaintiffs from defendant State Farm Fire and Casualty Company a policy of homeowner's insurance, which was in effect at all times relevant. The policy was what is commonly known as an all risk policy i. e. , a policy that all generally and without enumeration except those specifically, as opposed to the typical policy which both included and. The policy in question provided coverage for all risk of physical loss, except the following: by, resulting from, to or by any earth movement, including but not limited to earthquake, volcanic eruption, landslide, mudflow, earth sinking, rising or shifting, and by. . . settling, cracking, shrinkage, or expansion of,,,,, or. . . . In August the room addition, which was built on level ground, from the main structure. It was subsequently discovered that the room had neither a foundation nor any structural connection to the house. Around the same time plaintiffs found that the deck below their house had damage. Plaintiffs undertook to determine from defendant whether the loss they had sustained was covered by their homeowner's insurance policy, and eventually a claim for,. Over a period of many defendant investigate d the matter; over the same period Mr. Garvey and defendant's counsel about the law that should govern the determination of the claim. Plaintiffs dissatisfied with the pace of the investigation and advised defendant that they might institute class-action litigation breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing with regard to its interpretation of the earth movement exclusion of the homeowner's policy. In October, after from counsel an opinion that the loss was not covered, defendant notified plaintiffs by letter that the policy coverage for the loss herein. Normally, such a denial of coverage would leave you to your. However, because the company to resolve the coverage issue in an atmosphere free from extraneous matters such as bad-faith and class-action, the company is prepared to advance you the sum of, subject to a reservation of rights as authorized by v. , Cal. 3d, Cal. Rptr. . Under the agreement, defendant would make the advance and file a declaratory relief action on the issue of coverage; and plaintiffs would pay back the advance if the court in defendant's favor, would waive any claim of consequential or punitive damages out of any allegation of bad-faith, mental distress, oppression, fraud or insurance-related tort, and would not institute any class-action against defendant on account of the and involved in this loss and claim. Thereupon, plaintiffs filed the complaint in this action. They against defendant the following of action, among others. First, they that defendant had its under the policy to pay for the loss they had sustained to their property. They next that defendant had the covenant of good faith and fair dealing both in its decision to deny their claim and in its general handling of the matter, including the of the agreement; they further stated that defendant's conduct them emotional distress; they also stated that defendant with intent to oppress and defraud. Plaintiffs further that defendant various of the Insurance Code, both in its decision to deny the claim and in its general handling of the matter, and that it thereby them emotional distress; they further stated that defendant with intent to oppress and defraud. Plaintiffs for compensatory damages for economic and noneconomic injury; they also for punitive damages. Trial was by jury. Plaintiffs expert, Donald H. , and defendant's expert, Jay A. Nelson, agreed that negligent construction was a direct and substantial cause of the loss that plaintiffs sustained to their property. For example, to the question, In your opinion, is there any particular reason that the room addition gave way when it did as opposed to two or two later or some other time? , as: Not really. . . . I t was just kind of a failure waiting to happen, and it's hard to say what triggered it. It was basically faulty construction and at some given time you know, sometimes if these occur during the winter you can kind of say, well, maybe the soil was soft or weak or but this, in my understanding, during the summer in the dry season. So it was on there, it a point where it was over. The couldn't hold it any more, there were no at the foundation level, no at the roof level, no at the floor level, and it just fell away. Nelson to similar effect. B ad construction, he stated, was one reason why the room addition settled. The did not agree, however, as to whether and if so to what extent earth movement a part. For example, Nelson stated soil creep was a cause of the separation of the room addition from the main structure. to the contrary. To the question, Was what to the room addition in August of related to any respect to soil creep, in your opinion? ,: In my opinion, it didn't. And the reason is because the actual breaking the footing of the support beam was actually on a level surface. It was on a level fill surface that had been behind the rock wall, and the whole hillside may have been creeping, but this was just one part of it, and it was a level surface. Nelson that although he both negligent construction and soil creep were of the loss to the room addition, he could not make a determination as to their relative order or significance: Well, it all goes back to the chicken or the egg. I mean, which comes first. Plaintiffs also evidence to show that defendant its under the of the policy, the covenant of good faith and fair dealing, and the Insurance Code not only by its decision to deny the claim but also by its handling of the matter generally. After the parties, on plaintiffs motion the trial court directed a verdict in their favor on the issue of coverage. In support of the ruling, it stated: The Supreme Court told me in Sabella that negligent construction can be a proximate cause. They told me in Partridge there may be coverage whenever an insured risk simply a concurrent proximate cause of the. Now, to me that is crystal clear, those two together, that if negligent construction is a concurrent proximate cause of the loss, there is coverage. The court continued: The key witness for the defense, Mr. Nelson, conceded in his testimony, as I it and understood it, that the negligent construction was a cause of the room falling away. He did not use the word proximate. He said a causative factor at one time. I don't recall the exact language when he a question. In substance, that it was a cause on another occasion. As a matter of law, based upon the evidence, it was a proximate cause. The trial court subsequently instructed the jury with regard to the in the case. Because plaintiffs allegation of, and evidence on, bad faith related to conduct other than the actual decision to deny the claim, the court the jurors that the ruling a verdict of the issue of coverage shall have no bearing on any issue in this case. It further instructed them that An attorney the right to give a legal opinion to his client. The mere fact that the attorney's opinion turns out later to be erroneous does not by itself make the giving of the opinion unreasonable or constitute evidence of bad faith on the part of the client. It went on: Therefore, you should concern yourself not with the correctness or incorrectness of the legal point of view of the attorney, but with whatever circumstance s, if any, you find relevant which bear upon the state of mind of the attorney at the time. The jury a general verdict in favor of plaintiffs and against defendant, and assessed damages in the amount of,,. As its to special interrogator reveal, the jury found that defendant had both the of the policy thereby plaintiffs to compensatory damages in the amount of, and the covenant of good faith and fair dealing thereby them to compensatory damages in the amount of,. It also found that defendant was liable for punitive damages, and assessed the amount at million. The court judgment in accordance with the verdict. From that judgment defendant. On appeal, the parties raised several. Some went to the issue of coverage and to the directed verdict; others went to other. By a two-to-one vote, the Court of Appeal reversed. At the threshold the majority defendant's claims that Partridge is applicable only to third party liability and that in any event negligence could not be a risk included within the coverage of the policy. Sabella and Partridge and many of the cases in which those had been and applied, the Court of Appeal majority fashioned the following interpretation of Sabella and Partridge: W the covered risk and risk are in fact should be a court's threshold inquiry. . . . If i they both are in fact and if the two are independent of each other, Partridge analysis is triggered: the insured is covered if the covered risk was a concurring proximate cause of the loss. If the two are dependent on each other, Sabella analysis is triggered: the insured is covered only if the covered risk was the moving cause of the loss. Crucial to the majority's interpretation was the meaning it gave to the term independent: are independent when they are of separate origin and are each a sufficient condition of the loss in question. its interpretation to the of this case, the Court of Appeal majority that in the verdict for plaintiffs on the issue of coverage the trial court. It reasoned as: It may be that the loss was due to the fact that the covered risk negligent construction of the house addition was dependent on the risk earth movement. In other, if the negligently house addition was the agency through which the earth movement the loss, then coverage would be under Sabella. On the other hand, if the house addition was negligently such that the addition is what the earth to move with the resulting loss, then coverage. Finally, if the earth was to move independent of the house addition and the addition was tearing away from the house independent of the earth movement, with the two happening to join together to cause the loss, then coverage. All of these were jury because sufficient evidence was to support all three poss. The majority did not address any other raised by the parties going to the issue of coverage, and did not reach any of the bearing on other. It reasoned that because it had that the directed verdict on coverage was error, the entire judgment must be reversed see v. California State Auto. . Bureau Cal. 3d, Cal. Rptr. , P. 2d if there is no coverage, defendant cannot be liable for damages flowing from refusal to settle a claim. Finding that the majority's newly discovered independence requirement is neither by, nor is it consistent with, the decision in Partridge, the dissenting member of the Court of Appeal read the cases as: Sabella where the injury causing agent is literally set in motion, like the first domino, by a single cause; Partridge when the are not in a chain, and simply that where one of the concurrent proximate of a loss is a covered risk the policy coverage. Under this interpretation, the dissenter would have affirmed the judgment. Plaintiffs that under Sabella v. , supra, Cal. 2d, and State Farm. Auto. . Co. v. Partridge, supra, Cal. 3d, the directed verdict in this case was proper. I agree. In Sabella, the insurer to the a fire insurance policy on their house an All Physical Loss Building Endorsement. Under the endorsement, the insurer agreed to insure the house against all of physical loss except as hereinafter. In the subdivision, it was stated: This endorsement does not insure against loss. . . by. . . settling. . . . Subsequently, the house damage that was by settling, which in turn was by the rupture of a sewer line attributable to the negligence of the builder and the consequent of waste water into loose fill on which the house was built. Thereupon, the brought an action against the insurer, among others, seeking recovery for their loss. that the insurer was exempt from liability under the policy because the loss was by settling within the meaning of the exclusion clause, the trial court judgment in its favor. a hearing in the matter, we reversed. Our reasoning was as. Plaintiff. . . correctly argue. . . that defendant insurer is liable because the rupture of the sewer line attributable to the negligence of a third party, rather than settling, was the efficient proximate cause of the loss. The policy loss by settling, and the of the court below indicate that the broken sewer line waste water into the loose fill, setting in motion the tending toward settlement. As stated in Couch, Insurance, I n whether a loss is within an exception in a policy, where there is a concurrence of different, the efficient cause the one that others in motion is the cause to which the loss is to be, though the other may follow it, and operate more immediately in the disaster. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Defendant insurer to establish its non-liability by reliance upon section of the Insurance Code, which states that If a peril is specially in a contract of insurance and there is a loss which would not have but for such peril, such loss is thereby even though the immediate cause of the loss was a peril which was not. The insurer's argument is that since in a factual sense the loss herein would not have but for the settling of the underlying earth and house, the plaintiffs are thereby exempt from coverage for this loss. But section must be read in conjunction with related section of the Insurance Code Pacific etc. Co. v. William City Fire. Co. Cal. , P. , and section that An insurer is liable for a loss of which a peril insured against was the proximate cause, although a peril not contemplate d by the contract may have been a remote cause of the loss; but he is not liable for a loss of which the peril insured against was only a remote cause. It is thus apparent that if section were in the manner for by defendant insurer, where an peril to any extent in the chain of causation so that the resulting harm would not have but for the peril's operation, the insurer would be exempt even though an insured peril was the proximate cause of the loss. Such a result would be directly contrary to the provision in section, in accordance with the general rule, for liability of the insurer where the peril insured against proximately in the loss. Citation. It would appear therefore that the specially peril to in section as that but for which the loss would not have, is the peril proximately causing the loss citation, and the peril there to as the immediate cause of the loss is that which is immediate in time to the occurrence of the damage. Cal. 2d at. . In Partridge, the insurer to the insured a Homeowner's Policy, which, in addition to the normal coverage against fire and theft, a common comprehensive personal liability provision generally covering the insured for all personal liability not falling within. Among the was Bodily Injury. . . Out of the. . . Use. . . of. . . Any Motor Vehicle. . . . One evening, the insured took two, and Ray, out for a drive in the countryside in his four-wheel-drive Ford Bronco. With sitting between them in the front seat, the insured and by shooting out of the of the moving vehicle; the insured was a. Magnum pistol whose trigger mechanism he had filed to produce a hair trigger action. As he was driving, the insured spotted a running across the road and in order to keep the animal within the range of his the vehicle off the pavement onto the adjacent rough terrain. He hit a bump; the pistol which he was then holding in his lap or on top of the steering wheel pointed in direction; and a bullet through the woman's left arm and down to her spinal cord and paralysis. then filed a personal injury action against the insured. Thereupon, the insurer brought a declaratory judgment action, inter alia that it was exempt from liability under the homeowner's policy through the operation of the exclusion. The trial court disagreed. It first found that the insured had been negligent both in the pistol and in driving his vehicle off the road onto the rough terrain. It also found that these two negligent acts were independent, concurrent proximate of. Finally, it, inter alia, that the homeowner's policy coverage. Accordingly, it judgment holding the insurer liable. a hearing in the matter, we affirmed. Our reasoning was as. T he crucial question is whether a liability insurance policy coverage for an accident jointly by an insured risk the negligent filing of the trigger mechanism and by an risk the negligent driving. The insured correctly s that when two such constitute concurrent proximate of an accident, the insurer is liable so long as one of the is covered by the policy. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . In v. Metropolitan Life. Co. Cal. 2d P. 2d this court faced a somewhat similar problem of insurance coverage in a case a multiplicity of. In, an insured, afflicted with debi lit at i cancer, was covered by an accident policy which injury. . . or death. . . wholly or partly, directly or indirectly, by disease or mental infirmity. . . . Citation. The insured in a fire, and the insurer sought to escape liability by establish ing that a healthy individual would not have perished and thus that the insured's infirm condition did contribute to his death. While acknow ing that the insured's condition did contribute to his death, our court the insurer's contention that coverage was unavailable simply because one of two joint of the death was an risk. Chief Justice Gibson, writing for a unanimous court, declared that under such circumstance s the presence of disease or infirmity will not relieve the insurer from liability if the accident is the proximate cause of death. . . R may be had even though a diseased or infirm condition to actually contribute to cause the death if the accident in progress the chain of leading directly to death, or if it is the prime or moving cause. Citation. The court accordingly permitted recovery under the policy. The rationale of the decision equally to the instant case. Here, as in, an insured risk the modification of the gun combined with an risk the negligent use of the car to produce the ultimate injury. Although there may be some question whether either of the two in the instant case can be properly characterize d as the prime, moving or efficient cause of the accident we believe that coverage under a liability insurance policy is equally available to an insured whenever an insured risk simply a concurrent proximate cause of the. That multiple may have the loss does not negate any single cause; that multiple acts in the infliction of injury does not nullify any single contributory act. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . In the instant case the trial court specifically found that the insured's negligence in filing the trigger mechanism of his gun a proximate cause of. the above, we conclude that the trial court properly found the homeowner's policy applicable to the accident. Cal. 3d at. ,. and italics in original. In footnote to the Partridge opinion, we stated as. In Sabella v. Cal. 2d, Cal. Rptr. , P. 2d, the court, Couch on Insurance section, the principle in of efficient cause: I n whether a loss is within an exception in a policy, where there is a concurrence of different, the efficient cause the one that others in motion is the cause to which the loss is, though the other may follow it, and operate more immediately in the disaster. In Sabella, although damage to an insured dwelling from settling, an risk, the court found that the settling, in turn, had directly from leakage from a broken sewer pipe, an insured risk; on these the efficient cause terminology was useful, because the court could find that the break in the pipe set the other cause, settling, in motion. Citations. In the instant case, however, the efficient cause language is not very helpful, for here both were independent of each other: the filing of the trigger did not cause the careless driving, nor vice. Both, however, the injury. In traditional tort jargon, both are concurrent proximate of the accident, the negligent driving const in g an intervening, but non-superseding, cause of the accident. Cal. 3d at p. ,. . In footnote, we stated as. Our conclusion that coverage is available whenever an insured risk a proximate cause of an accident, even if an risk is a concurrent proximate cause, is consistent with Insurance Code and, as authoritatively in Sabella v. Cal. 2d Cal. Rptr. , P. 2d in. , supra. . . . In interpret ing these two in light of one another, the Sabella court the insurer's contention that coverage was unavailable whenever an risk a but for cause of an accident. The Sabella court declared: I f section were in the manner for by defendant insurer, where an peril to any extent in the chain of causation so that the resulting harm would not have but for the peril's operation, the insurer would be exempt even though an insured peril was the proximate cause of the loss. Such a result would be directly contrary to the provision in section, in accordance with the general rule, for liability of the insurer where the peril insured against proximately in the loss. Citation. Cal. 3d at p. ,. . Thus, Sabella and Partridge stand for the following rule. When two, one included within the coverage of the policy and the other, concur as proximate in a loss and are dependent i. e. , when one the other in motion there is coverage if the included risk the, but not if the the included. When, however, the included and concur as proximate in a loss and are independent i. e. , when one does not set the other in motion coverage in all cases. I turn now to the case at bar. Under the Sabella-Partridge rule, the directed verdict was proper. It is the law that Such a verdict may be properly if and only if, after disregard ing conflicting evidence, and indulging every legitimate inference which may be drawn from the evidence in the opposing party's favor, it can be said that there is no evidence of sufficient substantiality to support a jury verdict in that party's favor. Taylor v. Centennial Bowl, Inc. Cal. 2d, Cal. Rptr. , P. 2d. Here there was no evidence of sufficient substantiality to support a determination in defendant's favor. Specifically, the evidence at trial without dispute that the included risk negligent construction and the risk soil creep were independent: neither set the other in motion. Thus, there is no evidence of sufficient substantiality to support a jury finding to the contrary. Contrary to the majority's assertion, this case clearly does not present a classic Sabella situation. . . at p. , ante. Indeed, the record is not as the majority represent. As stated above, defendant's expert Nelson in effect that both negligent construction and soil creep were direct and substantial of the loss to the room addition, but that neither could be the prime, moving, efficient, or predominant cause. Plaintiff's expert that there was only one cause, negligent construction. The evidence also as the trial court expressly that negligent construction was a proximate cause of the loss as a matter of law. As stated above, plaintiffs expert and defendant's expert Nelson agreed that negligent construction was a direct and substantial cause of the loss. Thus, there is no evidence of sufficient substantiality to support a jury finding that negligent construction was not a proximate cause. It is true, as I above, that the did not agree as to whether and if so to what extent soil creep a part. But that disagreement is immaterial here: since the included risk of negligent construction was a proximate cause of the loss, coverage under the policy even if the risk of soil creep was also a proximate cause. The majority claim that Sabella a single workable rule of concurrent causation generally applicable to all cases i. e. , a rule of efficient proximate cause or mina t ing cause. . . at. , ante. I cannot agree that Sabella such a rule: the very language of the opinion, at length above, is to the contrary. Nor can I agree that such a rule would be workable: to my mind, it is so totally devoid of as to allow indeed, encourage always to claim coverage, always to deny coverage, and always to decide between them arbitrarily. The majority also claim that Partridge, and should apply, only to third party insurance. Again I cannot agree. Although the policy under consideration in Partridge to provide liability insurance, the court's discussion there does not suggest that the analysis is or should be limited to such; indeed, it and on first party and third party cases without distinction. Indeed, apparently no decision ever found in Partridge the limitation the majority now discover. Moreover, I do not find persuasive any of the the majority present in support of limiting Partridge to third party insurance. First, analysis of concurrent causation is not different for first party and third party. I recognize, of course, that such differ the one from the other: the former the insured for he directly when he damage to or destruction of his own property; the latter the insured for he indirectly when he liability to a third party. But I do not see how the analysis of concurrent causation between first party and third party. In my view, the same apply to the determination of coverage both when the insured direct loss through the concurrence of an included risk such as fire and an risk such as earthquake and when the insured indirect loss through the concurrence of an included risk such as negligent use of a gun and an risk such as negligent use of an automobile. Second, Partridge would not frustrate the reasonable expectation of the insurer and insured in a first party policy. The majority imply that it would be inappropriate to allow coverage when included and concur as independent proximate of a loss. I strongly disagree. In my opinion, it is altogether appropriate to find the insurer liable when an included risk i. e. , a risk the insured the insurer a premium to assume is a proximate cause of the loss: in such a situation the insurer merely the insured the benefit of the protection he. Third, Partridge would not lead to a result unfair to the insurer. The majority assert that if the rule in Partridge. . . were extended to first party cases, the presence of an included risk. . . , no matter how minor, would give rise to coverage. . . at p. , ante. Again I strongly disagree. As its very show, Partridge only when an included risk is a proximate i. e. , substantial cause. In the course of their discussion, the majority express general approval of the Court of Appeal majority opinion. I cannot concur. Crucial to the analysis of the Court of Appeal majority is their holding that Partridge the concurrent to be independent in the sense that each is a sufficient condition of the loss. In Partridge, however, this court clearly stated: H ere both were independent of each other: the filing of the trigger did not cause the careless driving, nor vice. Both, however, the injury. In traditional tort jargon, both are concurrent proximate of the accident. . . . Cal. 3d at p. ,. , italics added. As the majority themselves recognize, it is plain from Partridge that the of a loss must be independent only in the sense that each was of separate origin. In that case, the court the two the insured's negligent modification of his pistol and his careless driving of his vehicle to be independent. Each was indeed of separate origin. But unlike, for example, the independent acts of the two motorcyclist s who negligently rode past a man on horseback and the animal to run away and the man to be injured Corey v. Havener Mass. N. E. , neither the modification of the pistol nor the driving of the vehicle was a sufficient condition of the injury in question. The traditional tort jargon that the court used the same limited scope of the independence requirement. A concurrent cause. . . is a substantial cause which with another substantial cause to effect the loss, neither being sufficient to do so alone. Brewer, Concurrent Causation in Insurance Mich. . ,, italics added; see generally, Multiple Causation and Damage Harv. . . Read against Partridge, the Court of Appeal majority opinion is clearly wrong. First, its interpretation of Partridge the definition that this court gave the term independent in its opinion. This court's, which are above, in no way suggest that to be independent a cause must constitute a sufficient condition of the loss in question. Second, the interpretation of Partridge set forth in the Court of Appeal majority opinion, if applied to the of that case, would lead to a result opposite to that which this court. Partridge no from which it could be that either the negligent filing of the trigger or the careless driving of the vehicle a sufficient condition of the injury in question. Under the interpretation of the Court of Appeal majority, there would have been no coverage in that case: the negligent filing of the trigger cannot be the moving cause of the careless driving and hence could not be to be the responsible cause of the loss. Moreover, even if the interpretation of Partridge set forth in the Court of Appeal majority opinion were not clearly incorrect, I would be to reject it as unworkable. As the dissenting member of the Court of Appeal soundly stated, In order to comply with its new independent cause requirement the majority this case for retrial, the jury to follow what can only be characterize d as a maze-like analytical pattern which may yield an answer as to coverage or then again may not. . . . None of these will, I suspect, further the cause of greater predictability in coverage cases or in limiting coverage to against which the parties sought to insure. Indeed, under the rule set out by the majority the writing of policy will become the most arcane of art. The so produced will only puzzle the and engender more bad faith litigation. These need not arise, however, if we read Partridge to mean what it, namely that there is coverage when an insured risk is a concurrent proximate cause of injury. Although the majority do not discuss the point, I recognize that if the matter were of first impression Insurance Code and hereinafter and might be susceptible of an interpretation different from that which this court previously adopted. Section states: An insurer is liable for a loss of which a peril insured against was the proximate cause, although a peril not contemplate d by the contract may have been a remote cause of the loss; but he is not liable for a loss of which the peril insured against was only a remote cause. Section states: If a peril is specially in a contract of insurance and there is a loss which would not have but for such peril, such loss is thereby even though the immediate cause of the loss was a peril which was not. These might perhaps be read as: When an included risk was the proximate cause of a loss, there is coverage whether or not a risk not in the policy was a remote cause of that loss; but when the included risk was only a remote cause, there is no coverage. When, however, an risk was a cause in fact of a loss, there is no coverage whether or not the immediate cause of that loss was either an included risk or an unspecified risk. Even if I should believe that the foregoing interpretation of and is consistent with the intent of the Legislature when it the in as Civil Code and, I would be reluctant to adopt it now. As I shall explain, I think that the Legislature clearly the interpretation of and that this court originally set forth in in Pacific etc. Co. v. William City Fire. Co. Cal. P. , and reiterated more recently in Sabella and Partridge. In the question of legislative approval, a court well-settled. After the enactment of a statute, when a construction been upon it by the highest court of the state, it will be steadily to in subsequent cases, unless very plainly shown to have been wrong, and more especially where the construction so given is by a line of uniform, and where it been in by the legislature for a succession of. In that case, the construction becomes as much a part of the statute as if it had been written into it originally. People v. Cal. 2d, P. 2d; accord, People v. Curtis Cal. 2d, Cal. Rptr. , P. 2d. Further, although the Legislature, of course, is not to act each time a statute is erroneously and legislative silence in the face of such interpretation is not necessarily equivalent to legislative approval,. . . a consistent. . . interpretation of a statute, shown clearly to have been brought to the attention of the Legislature and not by it, is almost conclusive evidence that the interpretation legislative approval. Kay v. Federal s Commission D. C. Cir. F. 2d,,. administrative interpretation of statute; accord, J. H. Rutter Rex. Co. , Inc. v. United States 5th Cir. F. 2d,. the foregoing, I believe that the Legislature given its approval to this court's interpretation of and. First, the Legislature in that interpretation for more than three-quarters of a century. Second and more important, it actively manifested its approval of those as. To begin with, it to amend or repeal those as by this court. Moreover, it Insurance Code section as an exception to the general rule of and, and thereby made plain the viability of this court's interpretation of those: Notwithstanding the of Section,, or any other provision of law, and in the absence of an endorsement or an additional policy provision specifically covering the peril of earthquake, no policy which by its does not cover the peril of earthquake shall provide or shall be to provide coverage for any loss or damage when earthquake is a proximate cause regardless of whether the loss or damage also directly or indirectly from or is to, concurrently or in any sequence by any other proximate or remote cause, whether or not covered by the policy. Italics added. It from my discussion above that the Court of Appeal misread Sabella and Partridge and accordingly in concluding that the trial court's ruling on plaintiffs motion for a directed verdict on the issue of coverage was improper. The Court of Appeal chose not to address the other than those going to coverage evidently on the assumption that the judgment had to be reversed in its entirety as necessarily on a determination that the policy did in fact cover the loss in question. In so doing, however, it. In their complaint plaintiffs, and at trial they evidence, to support the jury's of breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing and its award of compensatory and punitive damages on grounds other than defendant's decision to deny the claim. Accordingly, I would reverse the judgment of the Court of Appeal and remand the cause to that court with to address the. , J. I dissent. The trial court properly a directed verdict on the coverage issue whether we view this case as one of concurrent causation or one of successive causation. If the case is as one of concurrent causation, coverage is established by State Farm. Auto. . Co. v. Partridge Cal. 3d Cal. Rptr. , P. 2d. Neither the majority nor the concurring dispute this conclusion; their position is that the case must be as a case of successive causation. Even when the case is as one of successive causation, there is coverage as a matter of law. Under Sabella v. Cal. 2d, Cal. Rptr. , P. 2d, there is coverage if negligent construction, the insured cause, was the efficient proximate cause of the loss, the one that others in motion. The majority so recognize. . . , p. . However, the majority erroneously conclude that if the earth movement, the cause, was the efficient proximate cause there is no coverage under Sabella. Ibid. Contrary to the majority opinion, Sabella does not establish that there can be no recovery in cases where the efficient cause is and the immediate cause, the one which directly the loss, is insured. Sabella did not involve an exclusion of the efficient cause. Sabella merely out that when the efficient cause is the cause and the immediate cause is the insured cause the case is by Insurance Code section. A number of cases prior to Sabella permitted recovery when the efficient cause was and the immediate cause was the insured cause. Sabella cited one with approval in the Insurance Code section. Cal. 2d,. It did not overrule these cases, and the majority should not overrule them with or without discussion. Under those cases we look to the language of the policy, it in accordance with ordinary insurance, and when this is done in the instant case, coverage is clear. In Sabella, a sewer line ruptured due to negligence of a third party, the insured and efficient cause, and waste water into loose fill, causing the house to settle. Settlement was the cause and the immediate cause. Sabella there was coverage and that if the policy were to exclude coverage it would violate Insurance Code section. Cal. 2d at. . Sabella should not be read as holding that in the converse situation where the efficient cause is and the immediate cause is the insured cause there is no coverage. The issue was not directly. The court said that Insurance Code section applied to that situation, and in this connection cited the landmark case of Pacific etc. Co. v. William City Fire. Co. Cal. , P. . Cal. 2d at. . There were a number of cases in addition to Pacific where the efficient cause was the cause and the immediate cause was the insured cause, and the courts found coverage. Sabella did not discuss or overrule them. While there was unqualified language in Sabella that the loss is to be to the efficient cause, the language should be read in the light of the circumstance s of the case, as to the issue before it, namely, when the efficient cause is the insured cause. The language should not be read as a rule applicable when the efficient cause is the cause. A number of cases have permitted recovery where the insured cause is the immediate cause and the cause is the efficient cause. In the landmark case of Pacific etc. Co. v. William, supra, Cal. ,, where the insured cause was fire and the cause was earthquake, the insured's building burned as a result of fire in a nearby structure by the San Francisco earthquake. In recovery under the policy, the court upon other cases fire by and accidental death where illness, the cause, the insured to drown or to fall in front of a moving train. Cal. at. . Although in all of the cases the efficient cause was the cause, the courts had recovery. In Pacific etc. Co. v. William, the court by pointing out the now well-settled that the policy will be to meet the reasonable expectation s of the insured, the clause will be broadly and strictly, and any ambiguity will be in favor of the insured. Cal. at. ; see also, e. g. , State Farm. Auto. . Co. v. Partridge, supra, Cal. 3d at. ; Sabella v. , supra, Cal. 2d at p. ; v. Royal. Co. Ltd. Cal. 2d, Cal. Rptr. , P. 2d, A. L. R. 2d; Continental. Co. v. Phoenix. Co. Cal. 2d, P. 2d, A. L. R. 2d; Ransom v. Mutual Life. Cal. 2d, P. 2d. The court Civil Code and now. Code, and and reasoned that the two must be read together and that the latter section does not permit the insurer to claim an exemption than that in the policy, and that no rule of construction would justify us in holding that the section the scope of the original exception. Pacific, supra, Cal. at p. . The court then the language of the policy and recovery. Other cases recovery by the insured when the efficient cause was an cause and the immediate cause an insured cause include Wilson v. Insurance Co. Cal. , P. ; v. Pacific Mutual Life. Co. Cal. , P. ; State Farm Fire. Co. v. Kohl Cal. App. 3d, et seq. Cal. Rptr. ; Chambers v. Kansas Life. Co. Cal. App. 2d, et seq. P. 2d and v. Occidental Life. Co. Cal. App. , P. . When an insured at his policy and specific insured and numerous, he often may reasonably conclude that the insured and the are mutually exclusive. As to many of the, it may be difficult, if not impossible, to conceive of a situation where the cause and the insured cause could combine to cause a loss. Thus he may reasonably conclude that the insurer out of an abundance of caution sought to make clear that there is no coverage where an cause alone the loss and never turn his mind to the rare possibility that the cause and the insured cause might combine to cause a loss. For example, an insured a fire policy on his home that, if his home, he will be; he does not think that the or in his policy exclude or of unless the policy it abundantly clear either by express statement or necessary implication. Accordingly, when the insured cause is the immediate cause of loss as in the fire illustration, coverage should exist unless the language of the policy it clear that coverage is when the occurrence the insured cause to in turn cause the loss. This principle, which long been applied to that specify the risk, such as fire insurance which were the predecessor of the instant all-risk policy, should be generally applied to all-risk where the insured are not individually but only as the not. To adopt a rule less favorable to the insured would render the all risk policy misleading. By its terminology this type of policy to broaden coverage as to a policy covering the same type of. Further, the incentive for the insurer to read the coverage as mutually exclusive of the is greater because the format of the policy means that if a cause is not it is an insured cause, so that if the loss were solely by it there would be coverage. It is all the more reasonable for the insured to conclude that the purpose of the exclusion is to exclude solely by one or more of the rather than a purpose to exclude cases of multiple causation when an insured cause. When we interpret the policy in the instant case under the settled applicable to interpretation of insurance, Wilson v. Insurance Co. , supra, Cal. is. There the policy provided for recovery for personal injury by train wreckage but included within the long list of injury resulting wholly or partly from any of the following to wit:. . . of any kind. Cal. at p. . The insured was seated in a passenger car of a train when a violent explosion in the toilet room, with of the passenger car causing injury to the insured. The court reasoned: If we must look for the cause of the to the first cause, it would never be the wreckage of the car which is itself, a result and not a cause. Cal. at p. . The court went on to conclude that if the insured had been directly injured by a bomb in his lap which then exploded, the exclusion would have been effective to eliminate coverage but where the explosion of the car to injure the insured there was coverage under the established rule of construction to be in favor of the insured. Cal. at p. . In Wilson, supra, Cal. , the efficient cause was obviously the cause,, and the immediate cause was the insured cause, train wreckage. The court recovery based on the language of the policy, contrary to the majority's rule which would exclude coverage whenever the efficient cause was. Further, Wilson to the proper interpretation of the instant policy. In the instant case, the policy states: This policy does not insure against loss:. . . by, resulting from, to, or by any earth movement,. . . The policy also loss:. . . by. . . settling, cracking, shrinkage. . . . The refer to a loss related to the earth movement or other, and do not deal with a situation where the do not themselves produce the loss but merely set in motion the insured cause which in turn the loss. The exclusion clause is ambiguous as to whether the alone or in conjunction with other limit coverage or whether coverage is also limited when the cause in motion an insured cause which in turn the loss. An insured can reasonably conclude that only the former is from coverage and that when the immediate cause is an insured cause there is coverage. It is true that the majority adopted which provide symmetry there is coverage if the efficient cause is insured but not if it is. But we are not or who often work towards symmetry. As judges, our goal is to search for justice. The basic governing interpretation of and exclusion above make it clear that and are not equally, and there is no justification for symmetry. Moreover, if symmetry were a goal, the majority it backward. Assuming that in multiple-cause cases we must choose between coverage where the insured cause is the efficient cause and where it is the immediate cause, common sense should tell us that there should be coverage when the immediate rather than efficient cause of loss is insured. An insured who his house burn as a result of a fire from a nearby falling tree a greater expectation that his fire insurance will provide coverage than he when a fire the tree to fall crushing the house. But under the majority's, an exclusion for loss by falling will mean that the fire policy will provide coverage when the house is crushed but not when it. As Sabella out, a number of had that the insured would recover when, as in that case, the efficient cause was the insured cause. A number of other cases had that the insured would recover when the efficient cause was an cause where the immediate cause was an insured cause, depending on the language of the policy. The language of insurance is not ordinarily directed to the multiple-cause situation and rarely expressly or by clear implication that there is no coverage when an cause in motion an insured cause which in turn the loss. Two Court of Appeal cases had generally that it been that when two join in causing an injury, one of which is insured against, the insured is covered by the policy. v. Continental Life. Co. Cal. App. , P. ; Hughes v. . Co. Cal. App. 2d, Cal. Rptr. on another point in Sabella v. , supra, Cal. 2d at p. . Today's decision in effect long-settled of insurance policy interpretation without the applicable case law. those long-settled, the trial court properly that there was coverage as a matter of law and ordered a directed verdict on the coverage issue. It is unfortunate that the majority do not discuss or distinguish the applicable cases, and accordingly they err in the judgment of the Court of Appeal. I would reverse the judgment of the Court of Appeal. E. g. ,. Exchange v. Cal. App. 3d, Cal. Rptr. dicta; Premier. Co. v. Cal. App. 3d, Cal. Rptr. ;. Co. of America v. 9th Cir. F. 2d,. As we explain in greater detail below, the distinction between first and third party claims can be as: If the insured is seeking coverage against loss or damage sustained by the insured, the claim is first party in nature. If the insured is seeking coverage against liability of the insured to another, the claim is third party in nature. The present case is a first party property loss case. All further statutory are to the Insurance Code unless otherwise. Sabella that in the a fire insurance policy with an All Physical Loss building. The insurer thereby agreed to insure the house against all of physical loss except as hereinafter. Under the subdivision, it was stated: This endorsement does not insure against loss. . . by or other; wear and tear; deterioration; smog; smoke from agricultural or industrial; rust; wet or dry rot; mould; mechanical breakdown; settling, cracking, shrinkage, or expansion of,,,, or; unless loss by. . . collapse of. . . . Italics added. Sabella, supra, Cal. 2d at p. . Contrary to Justice dissent, Sabella, supra, Cal. 2d,, did not merely point out that when the efficient cause is the cause and the immediate cause is the insured cause the case is by Insurance Code section. Dis. . of, J. at p. . This statement Sabella's analysis and its reconciliation of and in conformance with the reasonable expectation s of. Sabella, supra, Cal. 3d at. . Moreover, we do not overrule Pacific etc. Co. v. William City Fire. Co. Cal. P. see dis. . of, J. at p. ; rather, we recognize that the type of policy and in William bear little relationship to the above. William simply the insured to recover damages for a fire the remote cause of which was an earthquake on the peculiar phraseology of a particular policy, which made a distinction between loss directly or indirectly by certain means other than earthquake and loss or damage by or through earthquake. William, supra, Cal. at p. . In sum, although, like Sabella, we approve of the fundamental of insurance law in William, we recognize that it would be unrealistic to discuss at length a case property policy language that is now obsolete. Finally, Justice statement that under the majority's, an exclusion for loss by falling will mean that the fire policy will provide coverage when the house is crushed but not when it dis. . by, J. at p. modern homeowners policy language which fire loss specifically. For example, a direct loss to property by fire resulting from earth movement is typically covered. See Cal. Insurance Law and Practice ed. et seq. ,. A-F, ISO Homeowners Standard Form, at. . We note, however, that since insurance have the all-risk homeowner's property section. The Insurance Services Office ISO new of its all-risk in October and stated in its Explanatory Memorandum accompany ing the new policy that it the in an effort to preserve the effect of unambiguous policy. ISO's memorandum stated: The following have been revised to restate policy intent. Recent court have so that coverage been found for that are not currently intended to be covered, and in such a way that, in the event of a major catastrophe, insurer solvency could be seriously. The for these simply do not contemplate such catastrophic. Cal. Insurance Law and Practice, supra, at. . Because the effect of the new language is unclear, we refer only to in our explanation of liability and property insurance coverage and the applicable to such. A related issue whether courts should distinguish between of negligence when whether a loss by negligence is covered under a similar policy. For example, if construction is on the insured for the sole purpose of protecting against the operation of a specifically risk under the homeowner's policy, and that improvement subsequently to serve its purpose because it was negligently designed or, the damage to the structure should not be covered. On the other hand, ordinary negligence that to property loss, but does not involve acts to protect against an risk, may give rise to coverage under an all-risk policy. In other, at some point, courts may want to distinguish between of negligence when coverage in a first party property insurance context. The issue, however, was not raised in the present case, and we do not address it here. The term sufficient condition as used by the Court of Appeal the Partridge holding because it that negligent driving alone could have plaintiff's injury in that case. Although we point out the court's analytical error for of any confusion the term may have, we leave the application of Partridge in the liability context to a future liability case that the concurrent causation issue. As we above, Partridge, supra, Cal. 3d, should be limited to the third party tort liability context. In the unusual event that analysis under Sabella, supra, Cal. 2d, would not be useful in a first party property loss case because separate and covered simultaneously join together to produce damage a situation we have yet to address we may then consider an appropriate doctrine of concurrent causation to apply in the property loss context. For example, if property loss were to result from the simultaneous crash of an aircraft into a structure a covered peril in a typical all risk homeowner's policy during an earthquake typically from coverage when it alone to cause a loss, it might be impossible to determine under a Sabella analysis which cause was the efficient proximate cause of the loss. In that novel case, we might consider a doctrine similar to the present Court of Appeal's independent concurrent causation standard in coverage under the policy. It would be imprudent to reach such a hypothetical issue here, however, and hence we leave discussion of such a doctrine to a future first party property loss case, should one arise. The Court of Appeal in, supra, Cal. App. 3d, upheld a trial court's sustaining of the after plaintiff insurer filed a complaint for declaratory relief that certain all-risk homeowner's did not afford coverage for property damage by earth movement an peril after an unusually heavy rainstorm. Although the by earth movement, they did permit coverage for damage resulting from third party negligence. The Court of Appeal on Premier, supra, Cal. App. 3d and, supra, F. 2d, in that the trial court could find coverage if the negligence was found to be a concurrent proximate cause of the individual. To the extent that the Partridge analysis in the coverage determination, we disapprove of that decision. By at the outset that our result will automatically produce a victory for the insurer dis. . at p. or that our construction of Sabella is totally devoid of dis. . at p. , Justice dissent demonstrate s its failure to grasp the fundamental of our opinion. Indeed, a reasonable juror could find that under the of this case, negligent construction was the predominant cause of the property damage. In any event, the ultimate coverage determination is for the jury. Retired Associate Justice of the Supreme Court sitting under assignment by the of the Judicial Council. E. g. , State Farm Fire Casualty Co. v. Cal. App. 3d Cal. Rptr. ;. Exchange v. Cal. App. 3d Cal. Rptr. ; v. Foremost. Co. Cal. App. 3d Cal. Rptr. ; Ohio Casualty. Co. v. Accident Indemnity Co. Cal. App. 3d Cal. Rptr. ; Atlas Assurance Co. v. Corp. Cal. App. 3d Cal. Rptr. ; Underwriter s. Co. v. Cal. App. 3d Cal. Rptr. ; Fire. Co. v. Superior Court Cal. App. 3d Cal. Rptr. , A. L. R. 4th;. Co. v. Cal. App. 3d Cal. Rptr. ; Premier. Co. v. Cal. App. 3d Cal. Rptr. ;. Co. v. Jones Cal. App. 3d Cal. Rptr. ; State Farm Fire. Co. v. Kohl Cal. App. 3d Cal. Rptr. ; National Indemnity Co. v. Home Mutual. Co. Cal. App. 3d Cal. Rptr. ; State Farm Fire. Co. v. Camara Cal. App. 3d Cal. Rptr. ; v. St. Paul Mercury. Co. Cal. App. 3d Cal. Rptr. ; v. California-Western States Life. Co. Cal. App. 3d Cal. Rptr. ;. Co. v. Rich Cal. App. 3d Cal. Rptr. ; United Services Automobile. v. United States Fire. Co. Cal. App. 3d Cal. Rptr. ;. Co. of America v. 9th Cir. F. 2d, reversing C. D. Cal. F. Supp. ;. Co. of America v. C. . F. Supp. , reversed 9th Cir. F. 2d. As Michael E. , assistant counsel to State Farm Insurance stated: T he insurance industry several during the and legislative sessions which would have either or both. These were strongly opposed. . . and each of the early in the legislative process. Realizing that broad legislation to resolve concurrent causation had little chance of passage, the insurance industry its attention on the one peril whose catastrophic potential its very solvency the peril of earthquake. Unsuccessful were made during the session to legislatively exclude earthquake from property insurance which did not specifically cover. Finally, some relief was in with the passage of Assembly Bill, which effective on January,, as chapter. of the Insurance Code, section et seq. . , Concurrent Causation and the Art of Policy Drafting: New for Property Forum,,. . Cases of necessary implication in multiple-cause cases differ on the basis whether the policy or is an all-risk policy. When the policy, the exclusion will be effective in multiple-cause cases where the exclusion necessarily existence of the insured cause. For example, in an automobile liability policy an exclusion of teenage necessarily that the insured cause, use of the automobile, is present. When the policy is an all-risk policy, the exclusion will be given effect when the insured cause necessarily to the cause. For example, when a homeowner's comprehensive liability policy coverage for out of the use and ownership of motor, the insurer is not liable for of action based on negligent entrustment because the insured cause, negligent entrustment, is necessarily related to the use and ownership of the vehicle. . Co. v. Cal. App. 3d, et seq. Cal. Rptr. ; see Fire. Co. v. Superior Court Cal. App. 3d, et seq. Cal. Rptr. , A. L. R. 4th;. Co. v. Jones Cal. App. 3d, Cal. Rptr. ; State Farm Fire. Co. v. Camara Cal. App. 3d, et seq. Cal. Rptr. . The majority state that they do not overrule Pacific etc. Co. v. William City Fire. Co. , supra, Cal. . Rather, the majority say, We approve of the fundamental of insurance law in William, we recognize that it would be unrealistic to discuss at length a case property policy language that is now obsolete. . . at p. , italics added. I agree that no purpose would be served by the obsolete language of the William policy. But we should analyze the modern language of the exclusion clause in the policy before us under the fundamental of insurance law in William. I have done so above. However, the majority do not look at the language of the exclusion but, contrary to the fundamental, merely adopt an automatic rule recovery when the immediate cause is insured and the efficient cause is. Both before and after Sabella, coverage been to exist in California when the efficient cause was. The majority cite no California case, before or after Sabella, which that there was no coverage when the immediate cause of loss was the insured cause. In short, apart from the one ambiguous sentence in Sabella, there is no precedent in California for the majority's rule, and every successive causation case where the immediate cause is insured found coverage, contrary to today's majority holding.